Add WAF policy compile instructions (#5886)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/installation/integrations/app-protect-waf/compile-waf-policies.md

---
docs: DOCS-000
title: Compile NAP WAF policies using NGINX Instance Manager
toc: true
weight: 300
---

## Overview

> This guide describes how to use F5 NGINX Instance Manager to compile NGINX App Protect WAF Policies for use with NGINX Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: General question: do we follow the principles of "Every page is page one"? If so, we should spell out `web application firewall` on the first mention on every page.

Author: NGINX App Protect WAF is the product name.

> NGINX App Protect WAF uses policies to configure which security features are set. When these policies are changed, they need to be compiled so that the engine can begin to use them. Compiling policies can take a large amount of time and resources, depending on the size. The preferred way to do this is with NGINX Instance Manager. This will reduce the impact on a NGINX Ingress Controller deployment.

Reviewer: Pushing present tense and second person

```suggestion
NGINX App Protect WAF uses policies to configure which security features are set. When these policies are changed, they need to be compiled so that the engine can begin to use them. Compiling policies can take a large amount of time and resources. You can do this with the NGINX Instance Manager. This reduces the impact on a NGINX Ingress Controller deployment.
```

By using NGINX Instance Manager to compile WAF policies, the policy bundle can also be used immediately by NGINX Ingress Controller without reloading.

The following steps describe how to use the NGINX Instance Manager API to create a new security policy, compile a bundle, then add it to NGINX Ingress Controller.

## Before you start
### Requirements
- A working [NGINX Management Suite](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/installation/) instance.
- An [NGINX Management Suite user](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/admin-guides/rbac/rbac-getting-started/) for API requests.
- A NGINX Ingress Controller [deployment with NGINX App Protect WAF]({{< relref "/installation/integrations/app-protect-waf/installation.md" >}}).

## Create a new security policy

{{< tip >}} You can skip this step if you intend to use an existing security policy. {{< /tip >}}

> First, create a [new security policy](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/nim/how-to/app-protect/manage-waf-security-policies/#create-security-policy) using the API: this will require the use of a tool such as [`curl`](https://curl.se/) or [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)

Reviewer: General comments:

I see "First" but no second or next step. I do see a "final step". I also see future tense in several places.

}
```

{{< warning >}}

The `content` value must be base64 encoded or you will encounter an error.

{{< /warning >}}

In the same directory you created `simple-policy.json`, create a POST request for NGINX Instance Manager using the API.

```shell
curl -X POST https://{{NMS_FQDN}}/api/platform/v1/security/policies \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <access token>" \
    -d @simple-policy.json
```

You should receive an API response similar to the following output, indicating the policy has been successfully created.

```json
{
    "metadata": {
        "created": "2024-06-12T20:28:08.152171922Z",
        "description": "Ignore cross-site scripting is a security policy that intentionally ignores cross site scripting.",
        "displayName": "Nginxbundletest",
        "externalId": "",
        "externalIdType": "",
        "modified": "2024-06-12T20:28:08.152171922Z",
        "name": "Nginxbundletest",
        "revisionTimestamp": "2024-06-12T20:28:08.152171922Z",
        "uid": "6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1"
    },
    "selfLink": {
        "rel": "/api/platform/v1/security/policies/6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1"
    }
}
```

{{< important >}}

> Take note of the *uid* field: `"uid": "6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1"`

Reviewer: Should we worry about PII?

Author: I don't think PII is a relevant term to a software policy: in this documentation it is referencing the example run through of the steps for internal consistency.

    -H "Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46UncxQXBQS3lRRTRuQXRXOFRYa1J4ZFdVSWVTSGtU" \
     | jq -r '.content' | base64 -d > security-policy-bundle.tgz
```

## Add volumes and volumeMounts to NGINX Ingress Controller

In order to use the WAF security bundles, your NGINX Ingress Controller instance must have *volumes* and *volumeMounts*. Precise paths are used to detect when bundles are uploaded to the cluster.

Here is an example of what must be added:

```yaml
volumes:
- name: <volume_name>
persistentVolumeClaim:
    claimName: <claim_name>

volumeMounts:
- name: <volume_mount_name>
    mountPath: /etc/nginx/waf/bundles
```

A full example of a deployment file with `volumes` and `volumeMounts` may look like the following:

```yaml

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-ingress
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx-ingress
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx-ingress
        app.kubernetes.io/name: nginx-ingress
     #annotations:
       #prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
       #prometheus.io/port: "9113"

>        #prometheus.io/scheme: http

Reviewer 2: should we include commented out configuration if it's not related to the example

Author: Since it's intended to be a complete example, if the commented out configuration would be there, it should stay.

          runAsUser: 101 #nginx
          runAsNonRoot: true
          capabilities:
            drop:
            - ALL
            add:
            - NET_BIND_SERVICE
        volumeMounts:
        -  name: bundle-mount
           mountPath: /etc/nginx/waf/bundles
        env:
        - name: POD_NAMESPACE
          valueFrom:
            fieldRef:
              fieldPath: metadata.namespace
        - name: POD_NAME
          valueFrom:
            fieldRef:
              fieldPath: metadata.name
        args:
          - -nginx-configmaps=$(POD_NAMESPACE)/nginx-config
          - -report-ingress-status
          - -external-service=nginx-ingress
```

## Create WAF policy

Before a bundle can be processed, a WAF policy must be created. 

This policy is added to `/etc/nginx/waf/bundles`, allowing NGINX Ingress Controller to load it into WAF.

The example below shows the required WAF policy, and the *apBundle* and *apLogConf* fields you must use for the security bundle binary file (A tar ball).

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: <waf-policy-name>
spec:
  waf:
    enable: true
    apBundle: "<bundle-name>.tgz"
    securityLogs:
    - enable: true

>         apLogConf: "<bundle-name>.tgz"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        apLogbundle: "<bundle-name>.tgz"
```

>         logDest: "syslog:server=syslog-svc.default:514"

Reviewer 4: @ADubhlaoich lets replace this with "<enter_security_log_dest_url_here>" or something more generic

>         logDest: "syslog:server=syslog-svc.default:514"

Author: ```suggestion
        logDest: "<security-log-destination-URL>"
```

```

## Create VirtualServer resource and apply policy

Once the WAF policy has been created, link it to your *virtualServer resource*.

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: webapp
spec:
  host: webapp.example.com
  policies:
  - name: <waf-policy-name>
  upstreams:
  - name: webapp
    service: webapp-svc
    port: 80
  routes:
  - path: /
    action:
      pass: webapp
```

## Upload the security bundle

> The final step is to upload the security bundle binary to the NIC pods.

Author: ```suggestion
The final step is to upload the security bundle binary to the NGINX Ingress Controller pods.
```

---
docs: DOCS-000
title: Compile NAP WAF policies using NGINX Instance Manager
toc: true
weight: 300
---

## Overview

This guide describes how to use F5 NGINX Instance Manager to compile NGINX App WAF Policies for use with NGINX Ingress Controller.

> NGINX App Protect WAF uses policies to configure which security features are enabled or disabled. When these policies are changed, they need to be compiled so that the engine can begin to use them. Compiling policies can take a large amount of time and resources (Depending on the size), so the preferred way to do this is with NGINX Instance Manager, reducing the impact on a NGINX Ingress Controller deployment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NGINX App Protect WAF uses policies to configure which security features are set. When these policies are changed, they need to be compiled so that the engine can begin to use them. Compiling policies can take a large amount of time and resources, depending on the size. The preferred way to do this is with NGINX Instance Manager. This will reduce the impact on a NGINX Ingress Controller deployment.
```

## Create a new security policy

{{< tip >}} You can skip this step if you intend to use an existing security policy. {{< /tip >}}

First, create a [new security policy](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/nim/how-to/app-protect/manage-waf-security-policies/#create-security-policy) using the API: this will require the use of a tool such as [`curl`](https://curl.se/) or [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)

You will use the API to upload JSON files for the policy, which will be the same method for creating the bundle later.

Create the file `simple-policy.json` with the contents below:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "Nginxbundletest",
    "displayName": "Nginxbundletest",
    "description": "Ignore cross-site scripting is a security policy that intentionally ignores cross site scripting."
  },
  "content": "ewoJInBvbGljeSI6IHsKCQkibmFtZSI6ICJzaW1wbGUtYmxvY2tpbmctcG9saWN5IiwKCQkic2lnbmF0dXJlcyI6IFsKCQkJewoJCQkJInNpZ25hdHVyZUlkIjogMjAwMDAxODM0LAoJCQkJImVuYWJsZWQiOiBmYWxzZQoJCQl9CgkJXSwKCQkidGVtcGxhdGUiOiB7CgkJCSJuYW1lIjogIlBPTElDWV9URU1QTEFURV9OR0lOWF9CQVNFIgoJCX0sCgkJImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uTGFuZ3VhZ2UiOiAidXRmLTgiLAoJCSJlbmZvcmNlbWVudE1vZGUiOiAiYmxvY2tpbmciCgl9Cn0="
}

> ```

Author: I concur about the explicit JSON block but there's a warning about the base64 encoded string immediately after this section of text. I don't have the context: could you add the block?

{{< warning >}}

The `content` value must be base64 encoded or you will encounter an error.

{{< /warning >}}

In the same directory you created `simple-policy.json`, create a POST request for NGINX Instance Manager using the API.

```shell
curl -X POST https://{{NMS_FQDN}}/api/platform/v1/security/policies \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <access token>" \
    -d @simple-policy.json
```

You should receive an API response similar to the following output, indicating the policy has been successfully created.

```json
{
    "metadata": {
        "created": "2024-06-12T20:28:08.152171922Z",
        "description": "Ignore cross-site scripting is a security policy that intentionally ignores cross site scripting.",
        "displayName": "Nginxbundletest",
        "externalId": "",
        "externalIdType": "",
        "modified": "2024-06-12T20:28:08.152171922Z",
        "name": "Nginxbundletest",
        "revisionTimestamp": "2024-06-12T20:28:08.152171922Z",
        "uid": "6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1"
    },
    "selfLink": {
        "rel": "/api/platform/v1/security/policies/6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1"
    }
}
```

> {{< important >}}
> 
> Take note of the *uid* field. 
> 
> It is one of two unique IDs we will use to download the bundle: it will be referenced as *policy-UID*.
> 
> {{< /important >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< important >}}

Take note of the *uid* field: `"uid": "6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1"`
It is one of two unique IDs we will use to download the bundle: it will be referenced as *policy-UID*.

{{< /important >}}
```

## Create a new security bundle

Once you have created (Or selected) a security policy, you can now [create a security bundle](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/nim/how-to/app-protect/manage-waf-security-policies/#create-security-policy-bundles) using the API. The version in the bundle you create **must** match the WAF compiler version you intend to use. You can check which version is installed in NGINX Instance Manager by checking the operating system packages.

If the wrong version is noted in the JSON payload, you will receive an error similar to below:

```text
{"code":13018,"message":"Error compiling the security policy set: One or more of the specified compiler versions does not exist. Check the compiler versions, then try again."}
```

Create the file `security-policy-bundles.json`:

```json
{
  "bundles": [
    {

>       "appProtectWAFVersion": "4.815.0",

Reviewer 3: Add a comment here as a note for myself. If we're showing the version of App Protect here, we'll need to make sure our release process scripts can update this version in our docs when new versions of App Protect are released.

                "policyUID": "6af9f261-658b-4be1-b07a-cebd83e917a1",
                "threatCampaignVersionDateTime": "2024.02.25",
                "uid": "cbdf9577-6d81-43d6-8ce1-2e3d4714e8b5"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

You can use the API to list the security bundles, verifying the new addition:

```shell
curl --location 'https://127.0.0.1/api/platform/v1/security/policies/bundles' \
-H "Authorization: Bearer <access_token>"
```
```json
{
    "items": [
        {
            "compilationStatus": {
                "message": "",
                "status": "compiled"
            },
            "content": "",
            "metadata": {
                "appProtectWAFVersion": "4.815.0",
                "attackSignatureVersionDateTime": "2024.02.21",
                "created": "2024-06-13T09:09:10.809-07:00",
                "modified": "2024-06-13T09:09:20-07:00",
                "policyName": "Nginxbundletest",
                "policyUID": "ec8681eb-1e25-4b71-93bd-b91f67c5ac99",
                "threatCampaignVersionDateTime": "2024.02.25",
                "uid": "de08b324-99d8-4155-b2eb-fe687b21034e"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> {{< important >}}
> 
> Take note of the *uid* field. 
> 
> It is one of two unique IDs we will use to download the bundle: it will be referenced as *bundle-UID*.
> 
> {{< /important >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< important >}}

Take note of the *uid* field: "uid": "de08b324-99d8-4155-b2eb-fe687b21034e"

It is one of two unique IDs we will use to download the bundle: it will be referenced as *bundle-UID*.

{{< /important >}}
```

          - -report-ingress-status
          - -external-service=nginx-ingress
```

## Create WAF policy

Before a bundle can be processed, a WAF policy must be created. 

This policy is added to `/etc/nginx/waf/bundles`, allowing NGINX Ingress Controller to load it into WAF.

The example below shows the required WAF policy, and the *apBundle* and *apLogConf* fields you must use for the security bundle binary file (A tar ball).

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: <waf-policy-name>
spec:
  waf:
    enable: true
    apBundle: "<bundle-name>.tgz"
    securityLogs:
    - enable: true
        apLogConf: "<bundle-name>.tgz"
        logDest: "syslog:server=syslog-svc.default:514"
```

## Create VirtualServer resource and apply policy

Once the WAF policy has been created, link it to your *virtualServer resource*.

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: webapp
spec:
  host: webapp.example.com
  policies:
  - name: <waf-policy-name>
  upstreams:
  - name: webapp
    service: webapp-svc
    port: 80
  routes:
  - path: /
    action:
      pass: webapp
```

## Upload the security bundle

> The final step is to upload the security bundle binary to the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The final step is to upload the security bundle binary to the NIC pods.
```

```shell

> kubectl cp

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
kubectl cp /your/local/path/<bundle_name>.tgz  <namespace>/<pod-name>:etc/nginx/waf/bundles<bundle_name>.tgz
```

NGINX App Protect WAF uses policies to configure which security features are enabled or disabled. When these policies are changed, they need to be compiled so that the engine can begin to use them. Compiling policies can take a large amount of time and resources (Depending on the size), so the preferred way to do this is with NGINX Instance Manager, reducing the impact on a NGINX Ingress Controller deployment.

By using NGINX Instance Manager to compile WAF policies, the policy bundle can also be used immediately by NGINX Ingress Controller without reloading.

The following steps describe how to use the NGINX Instance Manager API to create a new security policy, compile a bundle, then add it to NGINX Ingress Controller.

## Before you start
### Requirements
- A working [NGINX Management Suite](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/installation/) instance.
- A NGINX Ingress Controller [deployment with NGINX App Protect WAF]({{< relref "/installation/integrations/app-protect-waf/installation" >}}).

## Configure NGINX Instance Manager
<!-- This looks like it corresponds to step 1 of the draft:

- The reader will need a working NMS instance (Covered in the requirements above)

> - They will need a user account with API access (Link to NIM/NMS RBAC user creation/auth documentation?) -->

Author: Unless there's some unique steps to this, a user account with API access could just be part of the pre-requisites - so you jump right into creating a security policy.

Author: Basic authentication:

https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/admin-guides/authentication/basic-authentication/#making-api-requests-with-basic-authentication

I can't find a simple example of API interactions using OIDC.
